br refactor: translate snapshot br (#11392)
pingcap/docs: br/br-snapshot-architecture.md

4. TiKV restores the data.

    * **Download SST**: the restore worker downloads corresponding SST files from the storage path to a local directory.
    * **Rewrite KVs**: the restore worker rewrites the KV data according to the new table ID, that is, replace the original table ID in the [Key-Value](/tidb-computing.md#mapping-table-data-to-key-value) with the new table ID. The restore worker also rewrites the index ID in the same way.
    * **Ingest SST**: the restore worker ingests the processed SST files into RocksDB.
    * **Report restore result**: the restore worker reports the restore result to BR.

5. BR receives the restore result from each TiKV node.

    * If some data fails to be restored due to `RegionNotFound` or `EpochNotMatch`, for example, a TiKV node is down, BR will retry the restore.
    * If there is any data fails to be restored and cannot be retried, the restore task fails.
    * After all data is restored, the restore task succeeds.

## Backup files

### Types of backup files

Snapshot backup generates the following types of files:

- `SST` file: stores the data that the TiKV node backs up. The size of an `SST` file equals to that of a Region.

> - `backupmeta` file: stores the metadata of a backup task, including the number of all backup files,  and the key range, the size, and the Hash (sha256) value of each backup file.

Author: ```suggestion
- `backupmeta` file: stores the metadata of a backup task, including the number of all backup files, and the key range, the size, and the Hash (sha256) value of each backup file.
```

> - `backupmeta` file: stores the metadata of a backup task, including the number, the files within the key range, the size, and the Hash (sha256) value of the backup files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `backupmeta` file: stores the metadata of a backup task, including the number of all backup files,  and the key range, the size, and the Hash (sha256) value of each backup files.
```

---
title: TiDB Snapshot Backup and Restore Architecture
summary: Learn about the architecture of TiDB snapshot backup and restore.
---

# TiDB Snapshot Backup and Restore Architecture

> This document introduces the architecture and process of TiDB snapshot backup and restore using the br command-line tool (hereinafter referred to as `br`) as an example.

Reviewer: br cli is just a use interface, it can not represent design the of the kernel, just like the tidb operator backup is another interface

## Architecture

The TiDB snapshot backup and restore architecture is as follows:

![BR snapshot backup and restore architecture](/media/br/br-snapshot-arch.png)

## Process of backup

The process of a cluster snapshot backup is as follows:

![snapshot backup process design](/media/br/br-snapshot-backup-ts.png)

The complete backup process is as follows:

1. `br` receives the `br backup full` command.

>     * Gets the backup timestamp and storage path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Gets the backup time point and storage path.
```

2. `br` schedules the backup data.

    * **Pause GC**: `br` configures the TiDB GC time to prevent the backup data from being cleaned up by [TiDB GC mechanism](/garbage-collection-overview.md).
    * **Fetch TiKV and Region info**: `br` accesses PD to get all TiKV nodes addresses and [Region](/tidb-storage.md#region) distribution of data.

>     * **Request TiKV to back up data**: `br` creates a backup request and sends it to all TiKV nodes. The backup request includes the backup timestamp, Regions to be backed up, and the storage path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * **Request TiKV to back up data**: `br` creates a backup request and sends it to all TiKV nodes. The backup request includes the backup time point, Regions to be backed up, and the storage path.
```

3. TiKV accepts the restore request and initiates a restore worker.

    * The restore worker calculates the backup data that needs to be read to restore.

4. TiKV restores the data.

    * **Download SST**: the restore worker downloads corresponding SST files from the storage path.
    * **Rewrite KVs**: the restore worker rewrites the KV data according to the new table ID, that is, replace the original table ID in the [Key-Value](/tidb-computing.md#mapping-table-data-to-key-value) with the new table ID. The restore worker also rewrites the index ID in the same way.
    * **Ingest SST**: the restore worker ingests the processed SST files into RocksDB.
    * **Report restore result**: the restore worker reports the restore result to `br`.

5. `br` receives the restore result from each TiKV node.

    * If some data fails to be restored due to `RegionNotFound` or `EpochNotMatch`, for example, a TiKV node is down, `br` will retry to restore these data.
    * If there is any data fails to be restored and cannot be retried, the restore task fails.
    * After all data is restored, the restore task succeeds.

> For more details about the backup and restore process, see [Design of backup and restore](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/blob/master/br/docs/cn/2019-08-05-new-design-of-backup-restore.md).

Reviewer: It's out of date, please remove it

## Backup files

### Types of backup files

Snapshot backup generates the following types of files:

- `SST` file: stores the data that the TiKV node backs up. The size of an `SST` file equals to that of a Region.

> - `backupmeta` file: stores the metadata of a backup task, including the number, the key range, the size, and the Hash (sha256) value of the backup files.

Reviewer: `the key range` is not an attribution of `backup files`, it should be that backup files contains the key range be backuped.
